Creating and Automating DevOps Pipelines for Node-RED in Industrial Environments (#2603)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/09/how-to-build-automate-devops-pipelines-node-red-deployments.md

---
title: Creating and Automating DevOps Pipelines for Node-RED in Industrial Environments
subtitle: Streamlining Deployments for Efficiency and Safety in Industrial Environments
description: Learn how to build and automate DevOps pipelines for Node-RED deployments in manufacturing and automotive industries. Discover practical tips and tools to streamline your deployment process, ensuring efficiency and safety in critical operations.
date: 2024-09-24
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]
image: 
tags:
   - node-red devops
   - node red devops
   - node red devops pipeline
---

> When deploying a critical application flow update in your manufacturing or automotive facility, it is important to include various stages of testing and validation. The smallest errors can lead to a floor crash or a production halt. In such industries, having a quick and reliable deployment process is essential for maintaining efficiency and safety.

Reviewer: This suggestion was not applied. Any reason why?

<!--more-->
For developers using Node-RED, setting up a comprehensive DevOps pipeline can make all the difference. In this blog, we’ll explore how to build and automate DevOps pipelines specifically for Node-RED deployments. You’ll discover practical tips and tools to streamline your process, ensuring your applications are always ready to support your operations.

## What Exactly is a DevOps Pipeline?

A DevOps pipeline is an automated process that helps developers move their code from development to production smoothly. In a pipeline, each step depends on the one before it, ensuring every update is properly tested and ready for use. The main stages are:

> 1. **Development:** This is where developers build and test their application. Testing ensures that basic issues are caught early.
> 2. **Staging/Testing:** In this stage, the code is deployed to a staging environment that closely mimics the live system. Here, the application is tested in real-world conditions to catch any remaining bugs or issues.
> 3. **Production:** When everything works fine in staging, the code is deployed to production, making it live and accessible to users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Development:** This is where the application flows are created. A level of testing and checking is naturally carried out as part of the normal process of development.
2. **Staging/Testing:** In this stage, the code is deployed to a staging environment that closely mimics the live system. Here, the application goes through a level of QA and is tested in scenarios as close real-world conditions as possible. This is stage designed to catch any issues that slipped through in the development stage.
3. **Production:** When the flows are tested and confirmed in staging and are ready to be deployed, this stage can be operated to promote the flows to production.
```

Not sure about this. Please check/modify/reword to suit.

_Click the 'Run Pipeline' button to initiate the automated deployment process across all configured stages_

1. Click the run pipeline stage option. For each stage, this button will be available, except for the last one. Simply click it to start the deployment process.
2. Once initiated, the deployment will automatically progress from the leftmost stage to the rightmost stage. It will copy all settings, environments, and flows and deploy them to the next stage. However, for environment variables, only the keys will be copied—you will need to manually add the values for each.

It’s essential to remember that each stage acts as either a source or a target: stages (except the last) push forward, while stages (except the first) receive the results from the previous one. This ensures your deployment flows in an organized, left-to-right manner, with no steps overlooked. Also, it is important to note that when deploying to devices, only one Device Group can be included, and it must be the final stage. This ensures that all changes are fully tested and verified before reaching production, guaranteeing a safe and reliable deployment.

## Conclusion

> Setting up DevOps pipelines for Node-RED improves safety and efficiency in industrial deployments. Automation allows teams to quickly test and roll out updates, reducing errors and downtime. This clear process not only makes deployments more reliable but also helps organizations adapt to changes more easily. By using a strong DevOps pipeline, businesses can ensure their critical applications run smoothly, supporting continuous operations in manufacturing and automotive environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DevOps pipelines formalize deployment patterns, standardize testing, and streamline updates, minimizing errors and downtime. This clear process improves reliability and helps organizations adapt more easily thus ensuring smooth operation of critical applications in manufacturing and automotive environments.
```

I _think_ this is a little less wordy/repetitive.  In particular, it removes the "automation" word (deliberately, see prev suggestion)
